# sig_queryl1k_tool
Compute similarity of input genesets to perturbational signatures

## Synopsis:
`sig_queryl1k_tool` [--up, --uptag UP] 
[--down, --dn, --dntag DOWN] [--score SCORE] [--rank RANK] [--sig_meta SIG_META] 
[--metric METRIC] [--es_tail ES_TAIL] [--query_meta QUERY_META] [--ncs_group NCS_GROUP] 
[--save_minimal SAVE_MINIMAL] [--save_digests SAVE_DIGESTS] [--exemplar_field 
EXEMPLAR_FIELD] [--max_col MAX_COL]

## Arguments:

`--up, --uptag` *UP*
: Geneset(s) to use for the up portion of the query

`--down, --dn, --dntag` *DOWN*
: Geneset(s) to use for the down portion of the query

`--score` *SCORE*
: Custom dataset of differential expression scores (e.g. zscores) in GCT(X) 
format. Use in combination with rank parameter.

`--rank` *RANK*
: Custom dataset of ranks corresponding to the score matrix in GCT(X) format. Use 
in combination with score parameter.

`--sig_meta` *SIG_META*
: Signature metadata for each column in the score matrix. This is a required 
field. The first field must match the column id field in the score matrix. The 
following fields are required [sig_id, is_ncs_sig, is_null_sig]. In addition 
fields specified for ncs_group and exemplar_field arguments must be present

`--metric` *METRIC*
: Similarity metric. Default is wtcs. Options are {wtcs|cs}

`--es_tail` *ES_TAIL*
: Specify two-tailed or one-tailed statistic for enrichment metrics. Default is 
both. Options are {both|up|down}

`--query_meta` *QUERY_META*
: Metadata for each query.

`--ncs_group` *NCS_GROUP*
: Grouping field(s) used to normalize connectivity scores

`--save_minimal` *SAVE_MINIMAL*
: Save minimal output to optimize storage requirements. For enrichment based 
metrics only the combined scores are saved. Default is 1

`--save_digests` *SAVE_DIGESTS*
: Save per-query digests. Default is 1

`--exemplar_field` *EXEMPLAR_FIELD*
: If defined the field should exist in the sig_meta file and have (0,1) values. 
The per-query digests are filtered to signatures where the value>0. Default is 
is_exemplar_sig

`--max_col` *MAX_COL*
: Maximum number of columns of the score/rank matrices to read at a time. Default 
is 25000

## Description:
The tool computes a set-based enrichment similarity between input genesets (aka 
queries) and a perturbational gene-expression signature dataset. While the tool 
is optimized for datasets generated by the L1000 platform, any perturbational 
dataset can be used.
 
The algorithm operates as follows. First raw similarity (connectivity) scores 
between a query and CMap signatures are computed. While query methodology is 
agnostic to the specific similarity metric, the default choice is a 
non-parametric, two-tailed weighted gene-set enrichment score.
 
The raw scores are then scaled (normalized) by the signed-means to allow for 
comparisons across different queries.
 
Finally the statistical significance of the connections adjusted for multiple 
hypotheses is estimated. FDR q-values are estimated by comparing the 
distributions of treatments to null signatures in the dataset.
 
## Outputs: 

The tool produces the following output:
 
arfs/ : Per-query analysis report files (ARFs)
 
<QUERY_NAME>/query_result.gct : a GCT format text file listing the annotations, 
connectivity scores and q-values for each signature in the dataset. The 
following fields are computed by the query tool:
 
- raw_cs : Raw connectivity scores
 
- norm_cs : Normalized connectivity score computed by dividing the raw 
connectivity scores by the signed-mean scores of signatures (specified by the 
is_ncs_sig field in the signature metadata file) If the ncs_group field is not 
empty the scores are normalized within each group, otherwise the scores are 
normalized using the global means across all signatures.
 
- fdr_q_nlog10 : Negative log10 transformed FDR q-values estimated relative to 
the null signatures (specified by the is_null_sig field in the signature 
annotation file).
 
matrices/query : Query parameters and result matrices in GCTx format for all 
queries:
 
- up.gmt, dn.gmt: query genesets in GMT format
 
- cs.gctx : Raw connectivity scores matrix [signatures x queries]
 
- ncs.gctx : Normalized connectivity score matrix [signatures x queries]
 
- fdr_qvalue.gctx : Estimated false discovery rate q-values [signatures x 
queries]
 
## Examples:
 
% Run queries
 
sig_queryl1k_tool --up 'up.gmt' --down 'down.gmt' --score 'score.gctx' --rank 
'rank.gctx' --sig_meta 'sig_meta.txt'
 
 
 

